although we have this saying in English
don't judge a book by its cover the
truth is that the cover is an important
part of the book a large percentage of
the readers and devotee of John Norman's
book series Gore the counter-earth
chronicles the gory and saga what if
wanna call it a large percentage of the
readers would admit that they started
reading in the first place because as
teenage boys the highly sexually
suggestive cover art caught their eye
and stoked their curiosity what's more
interesting to note in this case is that
the first editions of the books when
they were first published the United
States of America had covers that were
in absolutely no way sexually suggestive
or provocative the publishing companies
plural who tried to make money into
these books only realized in retrospect
many years later just how pornographic
these books were they went back and
issued 2nd and 3rd editions later
editions of these books had increasingly
sexually explicit covers as they figured
out that's what the audience was
interested in that was what the market
was and even that was the core content
of these books that the author was
trying to get across so we look at the
content of these books and we look at
the intent of the author there is a
peculiar tension with what is written
out so plainly shall we say in the cover
art of these books and that is these
books are at least erotic if not
outright pornographic but here's where
the strange tension lies no one could
have less of a detached good-humoured
attitude towards this than the author of
the books himself I think there would be
no political controversy surrounding the
gore books whatsoever if he had the same
sort of relaxed Hollywood entertainers
attitude as someone like Kevin Smith
Kevin Smith is a film writer movie
director what-have-you if he just had
the attitude of well you know these
books are a little bit eccentric but so
long
and so are my readers well you know it's
all in good fun who hasn't had a whacky
off the wolf and he said this once well
no no no the enduring significance of
this these books and their enduring
infamy and their source of political
controversy is created by the
incongruous fact that the author was a
professor of philosophy and he took
these books seriously to a mind-blowing
extent as not merely his satire in our
society as it is now but the
pronouncement of his political and
social philosophy for what our society
ought to be and that makes the sexual
content shall we say all the more
disturbing and all the more worthy of
reflecting on in the next few minutes of
this video
quote perhaps the books touch on
neglected or suppressed human constants
male and female perhaps they have
something to say which has not been said
for a long time they are probably unique
or also so in modern literature
it raises serious questions about the
intellectual superstructure of Western
civilization oh I'm sorry I'm sorry the
cover of the books doesn't just matter
to the members of the audience the
reading public how is it possible for
this guy who is a professor of
philosophy in New York State how is it
possible for him to hold up the book
with these sexually graphic covers on it
how is it possible for him to be making
millions of dollars out of peddling porn
porn based on his own twisted sexual
fantasies and to say dead serious with a
straight face in this way
these books are unique in modern
literature in raising serious questions
both intellectual superstructure of
Western civilization absolutely nothing
about the cover of these books suggests
that they're raising serious
intellectual questions and let me tell
you something as this video goes on I
think you and my audience will come to
agree with me that nothing about the
content of these books raises such
serious questions they have intellectual
content there are
ideas in them perhaps that is what so
outrages some critics he here compares
himself to no less important to think
her then James Watt the adventure of the
steam engine many scientific
breakthroughs related the transformation
of the the modern West he compares
himself in writing these sex fantasies
to James Watt in challenging and
transforming our civilization quote hero
of Alexandria in the second century BC
invented this dimension James Watt in
the 18th century designs and improved
steam engine and alters the course of
human civilization I think a similar
phenomenon has occurred with books how
is it possible to be this deluge let's
just pause the reflect on this for a
moment again keeping the laureate cover
art in mind what is the discovery that
he thinks is equivalent to discovering
the steam engine industrialization
electricity these customers what is the
breakthrough that he's saying people
knew in ancient times in the second
century BC and then they're
rediscovering now in his sexy fantasy
books it's slavery his idea is that in
ancient Greece they had kinky sex
slavery and now here he is again
rediscovering and been profoundly
transforming kinky sex slavery you know
the same sense that James Watt no didn't
just rediscover this image and he
profoundly changed their civilization
the claim is that john norman in writing
the gore books is now going to transform
the future of our civilization by
rediscovering something for the past
that was forgotten and what is he's
rediscovering is men taking women
captive enslaving them and in plain
english raping them and that his claim
is this isn't just the only thing that
can make men happy this is the only
thing to make women happy it's the only
way to set Western civilization back
hunts right path so gay
a little bit of a contrast from the
joking self effacing attitude of someone
like Kevin Smith Kevin Smith very often
is challenged about the fact that one
film or another of his is absolutely
terrible perhaps the majority of his
films are absolutely terrible and he's
able to sit there in a relaxed way and
say well he's just a storyteller he's
just having fun and some people like it
if that or John Norman's attitude toward
his creative output I think I can say we
wouldn't be having this conversation
right now there wouldn't be any
political controversy surrounding these
books but I think because this was his
had a suit because he took this some
strident philosophical and political
position I think this controversy is
never gonna die I think 100 years from
now the gore books and their fans are
gonna be with us and they're gonna be
moot new movies being made out of them I
think the inspiration like like Conan
the Barbarian like Star Wars I think
there are some elements of this that
will that will never ever die I'm doing
I'm doing my part quote obviously my
books answer to certain deep needs in
human beings if they were not important
to people if they did not have something
important to say something which
apparently desperately needs saying they
would not be as popular as they are
close quote now this type of claim is
very difficult to make about comedy I
could say that when I was a child I
responded to the comedy of Chris Rock
stand-up comedian because it spoke to
certain repressed political problems
that existed in downtown Toronto Canada
most obviously the the shadow of the
Black Panther radicalism of the 1970s
and the divisions between black and
white ethnic conflict and this kind of
thing
there was something I could say that his
comedy that it meant for me that made
this seem in powerful important but to
make these kinds of generalizations even
with comedy even with something as
explicitly political as comedy can be is
incredibly dangerous I mean if we're
being honest
why did Chris Rock become so popular did
it have nothing to do with the fact that
he makes a lot
jokes about cheating on his wife and
sleeping right it's just an incredibly
fat us self-serving path we start to go
down when we try to justify you know
what appeals to us even in comedy or
even in politics as representing
something profound for all human beings
or something shifts in our own time and
as I'm suggesting here with this
illustration it's much much more surreal
much much more self-serving and
delusional when we say this about
pornography rather than when we say this
about comedy or something with an
explicit political message right on
screen there I'm contrasting two women
who were respectively
the most successful pornographic
actresses in there in their time alright
one is Eva
Elfi and one is gianna michaels so about
12 years apart these women were the the
leading pornographic stars what what can
you read into this what what you know
okay I could try to construct some kind
of social commentary like well you know
um 12 years ago
hip-hop music was going through this
period where you know female body image
linked to rapid you can try you can try
but you know what the truth is there's
absolutely nothing we can read into this
at any given moment including right now
you can google around the internet and
you could find a dozen women who look
just like gianna michaels and a dozen
women who just look like evil feet just
very similar looking people who never
became stars who never became wildly
popular you can find all kinds of cross
currents in culture that way but
especially in something that blatantly
appeals to the erotic right but there is
no rational explanation for why one
person was a successful actress and
another person what one person became
famous and another person languish in
obscurity when they were just as
beautiful or what have you and you know
why because desire is irrational desire
is the most irrational and arbitrary
part of human nature but if you're
looking at the cover of the gore books
if you're looking at these pictures of
women in bikinis with swords and so on
it doesn't take that much imagination to
figure out that yes indeed we're dealing
with the erotic corner grab
desiring sight of human nature that
irrationally fastens on one woman and
becomes fascinated with her and makes
her famous and makes it the most famous
sex symbol of her generation and feels
to fasten on another all right the
arbitrariness of fame is quite surreal
if you're talking about comedy or action
movies or adventure movies or it's
already are enough but when you step
into the blatantly erotic when you step
into the realm of pornography the extent
to which its arbitrary irrational and
not susceptible to analysis or is on a
whole other level let's let's not go any
further with quoting the interviews with
John erm let's not go any further with
the philosophy of John Norman in his own
words without a little soul a little
taste of what it is you're missing out
in in these books what it is that he
characterizes as having so much profound
intellectual content and transforming
our civilization etc etc in this book
Norman continues his pattern of
storytelling interspersed with detailed
explanations of how to train a slave how
to make a longbow I would have trained a
slave how to make a ship how to train a
slave how to fight naval warfare how to
train a slave did I did I mention how to
train a slave this guy is joking about
the extent to which these books
incredibly repetitiously try to
inculcate this philosophy of male
dominance of female slaves and the
readers he's joking about it but notice
at the top of the screen four stars
many of the harshest critics of the gore
series are people openly admit they love
the books they enjoy the books but they
can admit and they could joke about the
extent to which this is really kind of
preferred sand bizarre and repetitious
and reflects some kind of monomania or
insanity on the part of the author or
another four-star review of the same
book torille has a bit of an existential
crisis and even though I like this book
the reason behind it was handled very
poorly and so out of character that is
laughable and he decides that money is
what he wants in life and so he becomes
a pirate our taro suddenly has no
problem with torturing his captives he
also has no
with keeping lots of slaves and pimps
slapping them at will and going beast
mode on them at the slightest infraction
despite the big tonal shift I actually
like this entry into the gore Canon
although much of the old recipe is still
in effect here
taro meets woman woman and taro are mean
to each other
taro and woman eventually fall in love
after woman realizes how awesome slavery
is again this is a critique coming from
someone who loves the books and who
appreciates what the author does
intellectually or in terms of providing
a good adventure story what whoever it
is he may human version this isn't
someone who hates the books but this is
someone who that can admit how deeply
flawed their readers of the books
whether they love them or hate them
debate at what point the series started
to go downhill at what point the
author's sexual political and
philosophical obsessions started to
destroy the quality of the books but
many of them would name this specific
book raiders of gore as the turning
point prior to this there was at least
some ethical tension in that the main
character in the books disapproved of
slavery and as you've just heard from
this book forward after he briefly
becomes a slave himself he a hundred and
ten percent embraces slavery and this
becomes a univocal soap box for the
author to preach his pro-slavery pro
rape pro violence to women views without
the ethical ambiguity that was provided
by having a main character even a
narrator who in the earlier books at
least felt some kind of misgivings about
embracing that this from website called
books without any pictures based on
reviews have read there's a point where
the series starts to go way downhill
i've definitely reached that point it
also represents a major departure from
the series thus far because instead of
focusing on Carl Tibet the hero of all
the previous books it instead chooses to
use an earth woman as the protagonist
Elinor Brinton a rich [ __ ] New York
City socialite who hates men that's her
defining personality trait her only
personality trait
one night Eleanor is captured and taken
to Gore where it's pretty obvious what
happens to her she quickly learns that
on Gore women have no social status and
she changes hands between a variety of
different men here's a one-star review
if you were into domination and
Submission then this is the book for you
if not it will bore you out of your
brain
despite the rather well-crafted science
fantasy world the story inhabits there
is page after page of stuff like this
naked and in Chains humiliated spoiled
rich [ __ ] lifts her head and rages I am
NOT a slave I am NOT a slave barbarian
hunk roars and strikes her across the
face and then kicks her in the guts say
you are a slave wench soething
humiliated spoiled rich [ __ ] hangs her
head and says I am a slave I am a slave
I kid you not
that is the book and I've just saved you
a lot of time another one star review
everyone said that this book marks the
point that the gore novel will start
going downhill as a big fan of the
novel's I didn't want to believe it well
let me tell you this novel is awful here
is the plot in a scene which is repeated
over and over and over girl
quote I am NOT a slave man you are a
slave girl okay I am a slave and it
feels so right the end this book
represents something of a turning point
in this series in terms of its misogyny
for the first time I think it actually
mentions the concept of rape previously
the book series was coy about it using
youth of isms like taking possessing
enjoying etc but in this book it
actually mentions rape directly or
explicitly likewise this book for traits
actual violence against the women being
hunted slash enslaved a particular
unfortunate being shot through the
shoulder and pinned to a tree by an
arrow it also describes in greater
detail the physical meaning inflicted on
women who do not adequately adapt
themselves to their lives of sexual
enslavement this is also the most
sexually explicit of the books thus far
previously the narrative would always
pan to the moon or fade to black
whenever sexy time begins this book it's
a little braver before cutting away
which is of course
one of the most baffling things about
this series yes it's all about male
dominance and the glorification of rape
culture quite literally quote [ __ ] her
until she loves you close quote
but it doesn't bother to realistically
portray the psychological / emotional
ramifications of this behavior what fun
would that be so there's clearly a
fantasy for those who enjoy that kink
but why is it that he's so shy about the
actual sex many of the reviews ask this
one why does it not actually describe
the sex you get all these descriptions
of chains chains and whips and like the
procedures of enslaving people but then
the sex itself the author seems to be
uncomfortable actually describing beyond
the use of some vague euphemisms slave
girl of gore gets a one-star review any
reviews of this book have to begin with
a comparison to captive of Gore captive
of Gore was the first book in the series
to be narrated by someone other than
taro being narrated by an earth female
captured and taken to Gore as a slave
just want to pause to note absolutely by
definition none of this is about BDSM
because none of this is about people
consensually having sex or playing games
this is not about consensual sex between
adults this is about people being
abducted kidnapped taken captive
verbally raped etc okay
this is very clearly and explicitly not
about consensual sex so anyone who
happens to click on this video who's a
fan of these books please accept the
fact that that is what you are in the
position of making excuses for you're
actually making excuses for a political
philosophy that's asserting people
genuinely violating one another's
consent taking people captive and
slaving them etc is for the victims own
good because John Norman argues inwardly
and secretly that is what women want
even if they don't know it yet until
after this traumatic experience happens
to them so she is an earth female taken
captive and relocated to Gore this is
essentially the same story as the
earlier book captive of Gore in Cabul of
Gore
we have Eleanor
brenton a rich [ __ ] socialite who is
beaten into submission until she likes
it in slave girl of gore we have Judy
Thornton a college student taking the
gore and raped into submission until she
likes it there are a few differences
between the books that are noteworthy
one of the main differences in the books
is that while Elinor in the earlier book
resisted her slavery mostly through
whining and screaming Judy in the later
book took to it quickly too quickly
Judy is literally melting in the hands
of her rapists and quote realizing her
place close quote within hours of being
drugged and transported to an alien
world while Elinor remained in shock for
much of her own story which is more
believable and was constantly crying
plotting and scheming to get out of a
predicament
Judy instantly converts from a naive
virginal opinionated coach student to a
gushing love-starved submissive sex
slave both books however make the same
point about that conversion it's what
women really want a subtle difference
between the books is that captive of
gore took an approach that some women
just don't know what they want and all
you have to do is beat them and rape
them until they realize it however slave
girl goes further than captive by
claiming that all women are submissive
and natural sex slaves and they can't
wait to show you
Norman steps of this rhetoric from book
to book at least he's consistent
[Music]